Coronary artery disease, or CAD,
is the narrowing or blockage of the coronary arteries,
the blood vessels that supply blood
and oxygen to your heart.
This condition is often caused by atherosclerosis.
Atherosclerosis is a buildup of thick,
fatty deposits, called plaque,
on the inside walls of your arteries.
As plaque builds up,
blood flow through the artery is slowed or blocked.
Reduced blow flow lessens the amount of oxygen
and other nutrients reaching the heart.
If your coronary arteries are narrowed
you may have symptoms including,
Chest pain, known as angina
Shortness of breath
Weakness, light-headedness, and nausea
The plaque could also break off,
leading to a heart attack.
Risk factors for developing
coronary artery disease include:
High blood pressure
High cholesterol
Smoking or tobacco use
Diabetes
Obesity
Or a family history of heart disease
Coronary artery disease usually
develops over many years.
You may not notice a problem
until you have a serious blockage or a heart attack.
Talk with your doctor
if you have risk factors for coronary disease.
A healthy lifestyle can help prevent
and treat coronary artery disease.